docs/docs/OpenML-Docs.md, before:

## General Documentation
The general documentation (the one you are reading now) in written in MarkDown, can be easily edited by clicking the edit button
on the top of every page. This will bring you to the file on GitHub containing the documentation source.
You can simply edit that file and commit or create a pull request.

The sources are generated by [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org/), using the [Material theme](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/).
Check these docs to see what is possible in terms of styling.

When we merge your edits, we deploy the new documentation straight to [GitHub](https://openml.github.io/OpenML), where it can be checked one more time.
On regular intervals we'll also deploy new documentation to `docs.openml.org`.

## REST API
Uses Swagger.io to generate a nice web interface that also allows trying out the API calls using your own API key (when you are logged in)

- Language: YAML/JSON
- Source: https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/openml/openml/1.0.0
- Result: https://www.openml.org/api_docs
- Deployment: Export from SwaggerHub, push to https://github.com/openml/website/blob/master/downloads/swagger.json

There is currently separate documentation for serving files:

- Source: https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/openml/openml_file/1.0.0
- Result: https://www.openml.org/api_data_docs

## Python API
Uses Sphinx (http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/) to automatically document the API.

- Language: reStructuredText
- Source: https://github.com/openml/openml-python/tree/master/doc + Docstrings in Python code
- Result: https://openml.github.io/openml-python
- Deployment: CircleCI job that runs automatically when code is updated

## R API
User docs: Uses Vignettes (knitr)

- Language: Rmarkdown
- Source: https://github.com/openml/openml-r/tree/master/vignettes
- Result: https://openml.github.io/openml-r/vignettes/OpenML.html
- Deployment: Travis job that (should) run automatically when code is updated

API docs: Uses Roxygen

- Language: Rd files
- Source: Docstrings in R code
- Result: Rd files, viewed as help files in the R shell https://github.com/openml/openml-r/tree/master/man
- Deployment: Manually pushed

## Java API
- Javadocs: https://www.openml.org/docs/

Commit message:

updated the documentation editing guidelines

docs/docs/OpenML-Docs.md, after:

## General Documentation
The general documentation (the one you are reading now) in written in MarkDown, can be easily edited by clicking the edit button
(the pencil icon) on the top of every page. It will open up an editing page on [GitHub](https://github.com/) (you do need to be logged in on GitHub). When you are done, add a small message explaining the change and click 'commit changes'. On the next page, just launch the pull request. We will then review it and approve the changes, or discuss them if necessary. 

The sources are generated by [MkDocs](http://www.mkdocs.org/), using the [Material theme](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/).
Check these docs to see what is possible in terms of styling.

!!! note
    Developers: To deploy the documentation, you need to have MkDocs and MkDocs-Material installed, and then run `mkdocs gh-deploy`. This will build the HTML files and push them to the gh-pages branch of openml/OpenML. `https://docs.openml.org` is just a reverse proxy for `https://openml.github.io/OpenML/`.


## REST API
The REST API is documented using Swagger.io, in YAML. This generates a nice web interface that also allows trying out the API calls using your own API key (when you are logged in).

You can edit the sources on [SwaggerHub](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/openml/openml/1.0.0). When you are done, export to json and replace the [downloads/swagger.json](https://github.com/openml/OpenML/blob/master/downloads/swagger.json) file in the OpenML main GitHub repository. You need to do a pull request that is then reviewed by us. When we merge the new file the changes are immediately available.

The [data API](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/openml/openml_file/1.0.0) can be edited in the same way.

## Python API
To edit the tutorial, you have to edit the `reStructuredText` files on [openml-python/doc](https://github.com/openml/openml-python/tree/master/doc). When done, you can do a pull request.

To edit the documentation of the python functions, edit the docstrings in the [Python code](https://github.com/openml/openml-python/openml). When done, you can do a pull request.

!!! note
    Developers: A CircleCI job will automatically render the documentation on every GitHub commit, using [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/). 

## R API
To edit the tutorial, you have to edit the `Rmarkdown` files on [openml-r/vignettes](https://github.com/openml/openml-r/tree/master/vignettes). 

To edit the documentation of the R functions, edit the Roxygen documention next to the functions in the [R code](https://github.com/openml/openml-r/R).

!!! note
    Developers: A Travis job will automatically render the documentation on every GitHub commit, using [knitr](https://yihui.name/knitr/). The Roxygen documentation is updated every time a new version is released on CRAN.
    
## Java API
The Java Tutorial is written in markdown and can be edited the usual way (see above).

To edit the documentation of the Java functions, edit the documentation next to the functions in the [Java code](https://github.com/openml/java/apiconnector).

- Javadocs: https://www.openml.org/docs/

!!! note
    Developers: A Travis job will automatically render the documentation on every GitHub commit, using [Javadoc](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/tech/index-137868.html).
